Android LKG workflow (#59)
o3de/sig-platform: testing-guidance/workflow-tests/android/android-lkg-workflows.md

# Android LKG Workflow Tests

Testing in this area should focus on the different ways O3DE can be built and deployed into an android device and the launch of a default level successfully.

## General Android Docs
* [O3DE User Guide: Android Support for O3DE](https://www.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/platforms/android/)

## Common Issues to Watch For

- Binary and assets are located at their correct place for each packaging mode.
- The most common packaging mode used during Android development is VFS (Virtual File System), be aware of network connection errors from the mobile device to Asset Processor running on PC.
- Rendering artifacts when running default level on Android devices.
- Low framerates when running default level on Android devices. Look out for spamming error/warnings in the Android log.
- Asserts and Errors that appear in the Android Log while running default level.
- Immediate crashes when launching the app on the Android device.
- Crashes that occur after some time leaving the app running.

## Workflows

### Area: Build android in different packaging modes

**Project Requirements**
* Create a new default project (`DefaultProject`)

> * Modify `o3de\Registry\AssetProcessorPlatformConfig.setreg` to generate android assets in the cache. Remove `//` the following android line:

Reviewer: We shouldn't recommend to users to modify the "engines" AssetProcessorPlatformConfig.setreg file for generating Android assets. That file is sourced controlled and has the potential to be accidentally submitted.
Furthermore it keeps `git` from seeing the workspace as clean when making modifications to it

Instead we should recommend that the user add a `<project-root>/user/asset_processor.setreg` with the following content to enable AP processing for Android
```
{
    "Amazon": {
        "AssetProcessor": {
            "Settings": {
                "Platforms": {
                    "android": "enabled"
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Reviewer 2: Should that be `<project-root>/user/Registry/asset_processor.setreg`?

Maybe worth noting the distinction between the "user" vs. "project" scopes:
`<project-root>/user/Registry/asset_processor.setreg` - User scope, only affects that user's local cache, and would NOT be checked into source control.
`<project-root>/Registry/asset_processor.setreg` - Project scope, useful if making the change for the team, and would be checked into source control.

Reviewer: Yes, that should be `<project-root>/user/Registry/asset_processor.setreg`.
I'll edit the comment.

Reviewer: Now for the distinction between user and project scopes, that is documented in the Settings Registry documentation.

Author: Excellent point! I'll test locally using the "user" version (it should work, but I'll check). I'll make the changes after confirming it's working. I'll test doing the same for the bootstrap settings.

Author: I tested this. I couldn't use `<project-root>/user/Registry/asset_processor.setreg` file because the first time Asset Processor is executed that file gets overwritten and it puts other content, that's probably a bug where if the file already exists it should merge it instead of replacing it.

To workaround that I just used another filename `<project-root>/user/Registry/AssetProcessor.setreg` and that worked. I'll use that in the document for now.

Reviewer: Yeah, the AP just writes out a certain subsets of settings over asset_processor.setreg, so it doesn't perform any merging.
Having a different name works for any user.
The name of the file itself isn't important as long as it exist within the user/Registry directory, so that it is picked up by the folder merge.

> * Modify `o3de\Registry\AssetProcessorPlatformConfig.setreg` to generate android assets in the cache. Remove `//` the following android line:
> ````
> "android": "enabled",
> ````
> * Make sure `DefaultProject\Platform\Android\androd_project.json` exists and that it has android settings section in it. Example:

Reviewer: I posit that we use forward slashes for paths in this document since Android is available for use on POSIX platforms such as Linux and IOS.
'
Also there is a typo in the `android_project.json` file.

Finally I would suggest using a placeholder for specifying paths to project root or engine root.
Such as `<project-root>` for the project root.

```suggestion
* Modify `<project-path>/Registry/AssetProcessorPlatformConfig.setreg` to generate android assets in the cache. Remove `//` the following android line:
\````
"android": "enabled",
\````
* Make sure `<project-path>/Platform/Android/android_project.json` exists and that it has android settings section in it. Example:
```

Author: Good calls, I'll do the changes. Thanks.

````
"android_settings": {
    "package_name": "org.o3de.DefaultProject",
    "version_number": 1,
    "version_name": "1.0.0",
    "orientation": "landscape"
},
````
* Build the default project on PC
* Open editor and create a default level (`DefaultLevel`)
* Create `DefaultProject\autoexec.cfg` file and include the following line to indicate the launcher to load the default level:
````
LoadLevel Levels/DefaultLevel/DefaultLevel.spawnable
````
* Run Asset Processor and wait until all assets have been processed.

**Editor Platforms:**

> * Windows

Reviewer: This is applicable on all host platforms, not just Windows.

Also we have instructions as part of o3de.org, that explains how to configure loading a level. Those instructions indicate how to do it using the Settings Registry (https://www.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/packaging/windows-release-builds/#set-the-starting-level)

Author: I'll rephrase to not mention an specific platform. 
The way that link is suggesting to set the start level is different from the one I'm using. I'll test it first to double check it's fine.
Cheers.

Author: I tested on Android setting the start up level like the link explains it, it worked.

**Suggested Time Box:** 1 hour for requirements + 30 minutes per packaging mode.

| Workflow                      | Requests                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Things to Watch For                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **Assets in APK**   | <ol><li>Uninstall `DefaultProject` app from device (if previously installed).</li><li>Follow the steps from https://www.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/platforms/android/generating_android_project_windows/ to build and deploy with the following alterations:<ol type="a"><li>Use `DefaultProject` you've created instead of `o3de-atom-sampleviewer`</li><li>Use `C:\o3de-build\android_apk` for `%O3DE_BUILD_ROOT%`</li><li>When running `generate_android_project.py` command use `LOOSE` for `%O3DE_ANDROID_ASSET_MODE%`</li><li>When running `deploy_android.py` command use `APK` for `%O3DE_ANDROID_DEPLOY_TYPE%`</li></ol></ol> | <ul><li>Binaries will be inside the android APK package. Unzip `O3DE_BUILD_ROOT/app/build/outputs/apk/profile/app-profile.apk` and verify `lib\arm64-v8a` folder contains `.so`.</li><li>Assets will be inside the android APK package. Unzip `O3DE_BUILD_ROOT/app/build/outputs/apk/profile/app-profile.apk` and verify `assets` folder contains all the assets from `DefaultProject\Cache\android`.</li><li>Execution's log and user folder will be generated in device's sdcard (`/sdcard/Android/data/com.o3de.DefaultProject/files/user/`).</li></ul> |

Reviewer: I would remove specification of paths such as `C:\o3de-build\android` as that assumes a certain hard drive structure.

Furthermore it is Windows specific(even the use of environment variables using "%O3DE_BUILD_ROOT%")

Reviewer: I recommend near the top of the workflow section of this document specifying some path aliases that will be used throughout.

Such as 
```md

<project-root> = path of Default Project root folder
<engine-root> = path of O3DE engine root folder
<o3de-build-root> = path specified as the build folder to generate_android_project (ex. <engine-root>/build/android_apk). Any folder can be used for this path.
```

Also the `lib\arm64-v8a` should be updated to use a forward slash so it becomes `lib/arm64-v8a`

Author: >I would remove specification of paths such as C:\o3de-build\android as that assumes a certain hard drive structure.

To make this document simpler to step says "Follow the steps from https://www.o3de.org/docs/user-guide/platforms/android/generating_android_project_windows/", and indicates alterations from that page, that page does use `C:\o3de-build` and that's is why it's indicating to change it to be clear.

>I recommend near the top of the workflow section of this document specifying some path aliases that will be used throughout.

It's the same issue, this page does not contain all the steps, it refers to the other page, it's more clear if it's directly using the same terms as that page.
